---
title: Building the SAML client
last_updated: September 1, 2017
sidebar: main_sidebar
permalink: building_samlclient_overview.html
summary: Neque porro quisquam est qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit...
---

Now that SAML2 support has been enabled on the CAS server, we can build a client application to talk to it.

Our SAML2 client will be an Apache HTTPD web server that offers both public content that anyone can access, and "secure" content that can only be accessed by authenticated and authorized users. The CAS server will be used to perform those authentication and authorization decisions.

## SAML Terminology

<table>
    <colgroup>
        <col width="25%" />
        <col width="75%" />
    </colgroup>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td markdown="span">Identity Provider (IdP)</td>
            <td markdown="span">A SAML Identity Provider (IdP) is a service that authenticates users ("principals") by means such as usernames, passwords, and multifactor authentication schemes. An authenticated user is given a security token that he or she can present to service providers (SPs, see below) to gain access to their services. The IdP also accepts users' security tokens from SPs and returns an indication of whether or not they are valid.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td markdown="span">Service Provider (SP)</td>
            <td markdown="span">A SAML Service Provider (SP) is an entity that provides web services to users. When a user attempts to access the service, he or she must present the service with a security token generated by a recognized IdP. The SP validates the token with the IdP. If the user does not have a token, or the presented token is invalid, the SP sends the user to the IdP to obtain a new one.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
